In part one of this two-part series, we’ll
cover data management, open source data integration,
transformation, and visualization tools.
The most widely used open source data management
tools are relational databases such as
MySQL and PostgreSQL; NoSQL databases such
as MongoDB Apache CouchDB, and Apache Cassandra;
and file-based tools such as the Hadoop File
System or Cloud File systems like Ceph.
Finally,Elasticsearch is mainly used for storing
text data and creating a search index for
fast document retrieval.
The task of data integration and transformation
in the classic data warehousing world is called
ETL, which stands for “extract, transform,
and load.”
These days, data scientists often propose
the term “ELT” – Extract, Load, Transform“ELT”,
stressing the fact that data is dumped somewhere
and the data engineer or data scientist themself
is responsible for data.
Another term for this process has now emerged:
“data refinery and cleansing.”
Here are the most widely used open source
data integration and transformation tools:
Apache AirFlow, originally created by AirBNB;
KubeFlow, which enables you to execute data
science pipelines on top of Kubernetes; Apache
Kafka, which originated from LinkedIn;
Apache Nifi, which delivers a very nice visual
editor;
Apache SparkSQL (which enables you to use
ANSI SQL and scales up to compute clusters
of 1000s of nodes), and NodeRED, which also
provides a visual editor.
NodeRED consumes so little in resources that
it even runs on small devices like a Raspberry
Pi.
We’ll now introduce the most widely used
open source data visualization tools.
We have to distinguish between programming
libraries where you need to use code and tools
that contain a user interface.
The most popular libraries are covered in
the next videos.
A similar approach uses Hue, which can create
visualizations from SQL queries.
Kibana, a data exploration and visualization
web application, is limited to Elasticsearch
(the data provider).
Finally, Apache Superset is a data exploration
and visualization web application.
Model deployment is extremely important.
Once you’ve created a machine learning model
capable of predicting some key aspects of
the future, you should make that model consumable
by other developers and turn it into an API.
Apache PredictionIO currently only supports
Apache Spark ML models for deployment, but
support for all sorts of other libraries is
on the roadmap.
Seldon is an interesting product since it
supports nearly every framework, including
TensorFlow, Apache SparkML, R, and scikit-learn.
Seldon can run on top of Kubernetes and Redhat
OpenShift.
Another way to deploy SparkML models is by
using MLeap.
Finally, TensorFlow can serve any of its models
using the TensorFlow service.
You can deploy to an embedded device like
a Raspberry Pi or a smartphone using TensorFlow
Lite, and even deploy to a web browser using
TensorFlow dot JS.
Model monitoring is another crucial step.
Once you’ve deployed a machine learning
model, you need to keep track of its prediction
performance as new data arrives in order to
maintain outdated models.
Following are some examples of model monitoring
tools:
ModelDB is a machine model metadatabase where
information about the models are stored and
can be queried.
It natively supports Apache Spark ML Pipelines
and scikit-learn.
A generic, multi-purpose tool called Prometheus
is also widely used for machine learning model
monitoring, although it’s not specifically
made for this purpose.
Model performance is not exclusively measured
through accuracy.
Model bias against protected groups like gender
or race is also important.
The IBM AI Fairness 360 open source toolkit
does exactly this.
It detects and mitigates against bias in machine
learning models.
Machine learning models, especially neural-network-based
deep learning models, can be subject to adversarial
attacks, where an attacker tries to fool the
model with manipulated data or by manipulating
the model itself.
The
IBM Adversarial Robustness 360 Toolbox can
be used to detect vulnerability to adversarial
attacks and help make the model more robust.
Machine learning modes are often considered
to be a black box that applies some mysterious
“magic.”
The IBM AI Explainability 360 Toolkit makes
the
machine learning process more understandable
by finding similar examples within a dataset
that can be presented to a user for manual
comparison.
The IBM AI Explainability 360 Toolkit can
also illustrate training for a simpler machine
learning model by explaining how different
input variables affect the final decision
of the model.
Options for code asset management tools have
been greatly simplified:
For code asset management – also referred
to as version management or version control
– Git is now the standard.
Multiple services have emerged to support
Git, with the most prominent being GitHub,
which provides hosting for software development
version management.
The runner-up is definitely GitLab, which
has the advantage of being a fully open source
platform that you can host and manage yourself.
Another choice is Bitbucket.
Data asset management, also known as data
governance or data lineage, is another crucial
part of enterprise grade data science.
Data has to be versioned and annotated with
metadata.
Apache Atlas is a tool that supports this
task.
Another interesting project, ODPi Egeria,
is managed through the Linux Foundation and
is an open ecosystem.
It offers a set of open APIs, types, and interchange
protocols that metadata repositories use to
share and exchange data.
Finally, Kylo is an open source data lake
management software platform that provides
extensive support for a wide range of data
asset management tasks.
This concludes part one of this two-part series.
Now let’s move on to part two.